---
slug: creating-3d-buildings-from-mastermap-with-qgis
title: Creating 3D Buildings from Mastermap with QGIS
authors: ecolazy
tags: [hola, docusaurus]
---

# Creating 3D Buildings from Mastermap with QGIS

The Ordnance Survey Mastermap Topography Layer, Building Height Attribute (BHA), and Environment Agency LiDAR Digital Terrain Model (DTM) are valuable data sources that enable the creation of 3D models of buildings. By leveraging this data and utilizing the Qgis2ThreeJS plugin in QGIS, we can visualize the BHA data in 3D and generate detailed building models.

To begin, install the Qgis2ThreeJS plugin and load the BHA data, DTM data, and any other desired layers into the QGIS project. Utilizing the plugin, customize the styling of the BHA data and define the height attribute for extrusion, which results in a realistic 3D representation of the building. This 3D model can be saved as an HTML file and effortlessly viewed in a web browser.

The inclusion of the LiDAR DTM enhances the accuracy of the 3D model, and it can also be opened in Grasshopper, a visual programming language and environment within the Rhinoceros 3D CAD application. By incorporating the Ladybug plugin, this 3D model becomes a powerful tool for conducting in-depth climate analyses and generating interactive visualizations for environmentally-informed design, including sunlight studies.

Through this integrated approach, we can harness the potential of spatial data and advanced visualization tools to create sophisticated 3D models that facilitate informed decision-making in architectural and environmental design.





