---
slug: bio
title: From Legacy to Innovation - A Journey in Architecture and Green Building
authors: ecolazy
tags: [hello, docusaurus]
---

# From Legacy to Innovation: A Journey in Architecture and Green Building
I would like to provide a summary of my architectural interests and experiences thus far, which have shaped my journey and led me to my chosen field of study.
One of my major inspirations is my great grandfather, Sir Ove Arup, whose legacy has profoundly influenced me. Observing the thin shell structures featured in the Arup Journal sparked my love for them. I began building countless woven hazel frames, appreciating the unique characteristics of these structures. This passion for form also led me to explore traditional wooden boat building.
In pursuit of building my own home on a piece of land in the garden, I drew inspiration from Lloyd Kahn's book, "Shelter." Alongside friends, we embarked on the ambitious project of excavating a 14-meter long tunnel into the hillside, using stone mined from the garden. Ultimately, we reinforced the tunnel with concrete to ensure stability.
Emphasizing the importance of understanding materials in architecture during a history lesson at school, I decided to gain hands-on experience. After graduation, I attended a year-long course in fine joinery and followed it with a two-year apprenticeship in stone masonry. I also explored steel fabrication through a separate course.
My growing interest in aquaponics and domestic food production led me to conduct extensive research. I delved into the Food and Agriculture Organisation website and found inspiration in the work of the New Alchemy Institute in ecological system engineering. Spirulina, a microalgae with exceptional nutritional benefits, intrigued me, and I researched ways to integrate photo bioreactors into buildings.
In my pursuit of creative exploration, I built a model using SketchUp to document the construction of a pottery shed. With the help of two friends, we constructed an oak-framed building set into the hillside over the course of a year.
My interest in boats led me to collaborate with a Canadian theatre company, assisting in repairing their ship and contributing to their show's production. My skills in CAD allowed me to create a scene-by-scene drawing for the rigging procedure. Subsequently, I joined them on tour as an aerial rigger for their giant spider puppets.
With a desire to delve deeper into building technologies and structural elements, I established a personal studio. I used color-coded material selection charts and researched form-finding software, computational geometry, and fabric formed plaster to create physical models of different structures. I also explored various technologies related to energy efficiency and cost reduction in building materials.
While I have enjoyed working part-time as a stonemason, I feel the need to expand my knowledge through a university education. I am particularly interested in understanding the functional technologies of buildings before exploring sociological and aesthetic considerations. This process will shape my future architectural practice as my interests converge and solidify.
Presently, I have two distinct streams of interest: thin shell structures, inspired by my great grandfather's work and my experiences building amorphous structures with woven hazel branches, and a broader interest in arranging elements efficiently to meet occupants' needs with minimal energy consumption, inspired by figures like Buckminster Fuller and principles of permaculture. I am in the process of organizing my research into meaningful forms, creating maps of interconnected systems and quantifying their relationships. In the future, I hope to design buildings using these innovative approaches.
My passion lies in researching green building technologies, delving into the intricate physics of these systems. Once I grasp the fundamental workings intuitively, I enjoy creating diagrams that represent the technology in a visual and accessible manner. Using a palette of colors corresponding to different material classes, I refer to interactive material property charts to enrich my understanding. This process allows me to absorb the information visually, fostering imaginative exploration.
I find great joy in crafting pictorial flow diagrams that document the fusion and evolution of design concepts. These diagrams become a web of interconnected ideas, from which intriguing concepts can be extracted and expanded into three-dimensional forms. During this transformative process, further refinements and adjustments are made to refine the designs.
The most captivating aspect of this functional design process is the emergence of peculiar aesthetics. Beyond mere functionality, the creations exude a unique and striking visual appeal. An example of such a conceptual autonomous building is pictured here, born from this very design process. This building features a magnificent piece of parabolically curved stainless steel with a dual purpose. Firstly, it collects rainwater, and secondly, it concentrates all rooftop solar irradiance into a single sheet of brilliant light. As this radiant light passes through the center of the building, it illuminates and energizes the interior rooms. Finally, it proceeds to the basement, where it gently heats a substantial volume of water and supports various waste treatment bioreactors.
